# Hypothesis
- Metamorphic proteins—proteins that occupy more than one distinct secondary structure as part of their biological function—would be a useful set of model proteins to develop methods for predicting conformational ensembles, as they undergo particularly marked conformational changes.
- If we could deconvolve sets of evolutionary couplings without adding previous knowledge and input these sets separately into AF2, AF2 might be able to predict multiple conformations with high structural accuracy.
- Having evaluated our AF-Cluster method on known metamorphic proteins, next hypothesized that this approach might be able to detect alternative conformations in protein families for which no alternative structures are known.
- Evolutionary couplings present within the MSA may be biasing the prediction to the FS state.
- By comparing clusters that predict different states, we could identify a minimal set of mutations that would switch AF2’s prediction between states.
- Clusters predicting the FS state were enriched for arginine at position 68, whereas clusters predicting the ground state at position 68 were enriched for leucine, a switch between a charged and a hydrophobic residue. A subset of these mutations might be sufficient for determining whether AF2 predicts the ground or FS state.
# Relevance Review
Given the paper's hypotheses and experiments, what are some connections we can make to our experiments to learn epistasis and map latent spaces to corresponding proteins?
Our data:
- Natural sequences annotated with mutation trace annotations,
- Synthetic data generated from Potts model.

r20 Reminder:
Mutational covariation over many and distant positions. 

- I can see that if the VAE would have obtained a better r20 performance, we would have used similar clustering technique on the 2-d latent space mappings. 
- What would make a model work well on the r20 metric?
- If we cluster the MSAs generated by Potts and VAEs in similar fashion, and then use AF 2 to predict, will we get multiple conformations? Even if a certain family only has one conformation, can we say that if both models agree, VAE can perform on par with Potts?
- Or, if VAE and Potts each leads to one prediction, how can we evaluate either one?

HIV Reverse Transcriptase is [metamorphic](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6686890/#:~:text=Living%20organisms%20have%20been%20able,%2C%20alternately%2Dfolded%20polymerase%20domains.), should we try experimenting with that instead?


## Generalized lessons
- hypothesis usually begin by knowing what is certain (KaiB being metamorphic). 
	- HIV Reverse Transcriptase is [metamorphic](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6686890/#:~:text=Living%20organisms%20have%20been%20able,%2C%20alternately%2Dfolded%20polymerase%20domains.), should we try experimenting with that?
- Input data is still among the first thing we should examine for learning hypotheses.
- We can apply dimensionality reduction or clustering algorithms on our data first to mine patterns before applying modeling work.
- the paper uses data that would benefit from filtering, but since the data we use in my VAE project was synthesized by Potts, isn't it already sort of "filtered"?
